<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>List of Illustrations</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter">
		<nav id="loi" epub:type="loi">
			<h2 epub:type="title">List of Illustrations</h2>
			<ol>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="frontispiece.xhtml#illustration-1">Amblyrynchus Demarlii: a species of lizard found on some of the islands of the Galapagos Archipelago.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-1.xhtml#illustration-2">A mineral with inclusions resembling small plants.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-1.xhtml#illustration-3">Two tiny sea-creatures with bodies like tubes with conical ends, joined together.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-7.xhtml#illustration-4">A drawing of the head and bill of the Scissor-beak bird, from the side, showing the much longer lower mandible, and from above showing its laterally flattened beak.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-11.xhtml#illustration-5">A globular fungus with its entire surface deeply pitted or honeycombed.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-11.xhtml#illustration-6">Sketch map of the glacier which reaches the Gulf of Penas, showing the length and width of the glacier, and a morass to the west of it.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-17.xhtml#illustration-7">Sketch map of the islands of the Galapagos Archipelago, consisting of ten principal islands, of which five are much larger than the others.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-17.xhtml#illustration-8">1. Geospiza magnirostris. 2. Geospiza fortis. 3. Geospiza parvula. 4. Certhidea olivasea.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-17.xhtml#illustration-9">Amblyrhynchus cristatus. a: Tooth of, natural size, and likewise magnified.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-20.xhtml#illustration-10">A drawing of a coral atoll in the Pacific Ocean showing its circular formation.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-20.xhtml#illustration-11">Drawing of the interior of a coral atoll, with an island and distinct peak in the center.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-20.xhtml#illustration-12">1. Vanikoro. 2. Gambier Islands. 3. Maurua. The horizontal shading shows the barrier-reefs and lagoon-channels. The inclined shading above the level of the sea (A) shows the actual form of the land; the inclined shading below this line, shows its probable prolongation under water.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-20.xhtml#illustration-13">AA. Outer edges of the fringing-reef, at the level of the sea. BB. The shores of the fringed island. A′A′. Outer edges of the reef, after its upward growth during a period of subsidence, now converted into a barrier, with islets on it. B′B′. The shores of the now encircled island. CC. Lagoon-channel. <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">N.B.</abbr> In this and the following woodcut, the subsidence of the land could be represented only by an apparent rise in the level of the sea.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-20.xhtml#illustration-14">A′A′. Outer edges of the barrier-reef at the level of the sea, with islets on it. B′B′. The shores of the included island. CC. The lagoon-channel. A″A″. Outer edges of the reef, now converted into an atoll. C′. The lagoon of the new atoll. <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">N.B.</abbr>⁠—According to the true scale, the depths of the lagoon-channel and lagoon are much exaggerated.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-21.xhtml#illustration-15">The interior structure of a volcanic bomb, showing the coarsely cellular central part, the cells decreasing in size towards the top of the drawing, followed by a shell-like case and outer crust.</a>
					</p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</nav>
	</body>
</html>
